## SUMMARY
- **PR #2999:** [Add RPC to expose audit summary](https://github.com/fedimint/fedimint/pull/2999)

### GPT SUMMARY:
null

## DETAILS
### Description:
Closes #2948

- Adds an `AuditSummary` that calculates net assets for each module and the federation in aggregate
- Adds an RPC ([`/audit`](https://github.com/fedimint/fedimint/blob/0d0b5144616ceb3652fd34ce9a3a17aedbdad6a8/fedimint-server/src/net/api.rs#L549)) and admin cli command that gets the most recent audit summary
  - To accomplish the goal in the [issue](https://github.com/fedimint/fedimint/issues/2948) for the guardian UI to display the total millisats held by the federation, the client can parse the net assets in the wallet module

```bash
bash-5.1$ fedimint-cli --our-id 0 --password pass admin audit
{
  "net_assets": 0,
  "module_summaries": {
    "mint": {
      "net_assets": -50000000
    },
    "wallet": {
      "net_assets": 50000000
    },
    "ln": {
      "net_assets": 0
    }
  }
}
```

### Comments:
- **bradleystachurski:** > I'm not sure if the complexity of separating assets/liabilities is really worth it given that every module typically only has assets or liabilities and never both (at least currently). In practice only the net_assets field is really usable (and the front end can decide based on the sign if it's an asset or liability).

Great points! I chewed on how granular the data should be from this endpoint and ended up choosing a middle ground.

The most granular approach is to send all audit items to the client and keep the logic for summarizing the data in the client. I wasn't a fan of that approach since we'll need to page / stream and there isn't a clear need yet for all audit items in the client. We could also add a separate endpoint later specifically for all audit items.

The least granular approach is to simply return the net assets in the wallet module, which would accomplish the goal in the associated issue for showing how many bitcions are held in the federation.

As a user of the guardian UI, I would likely be confused at first glance from the current response of this endpoint. I'm not sure that's particularly relevant since the client is the consumer of the response, not the end user, but it would still be nice to reduce confusion and complexity around something as critical as an audit.
- **bradleystachurski:** Capturing our chat from the 2023-08-21 dev [call](https://discord.com/channels/990354215060795454/999362050625130656/1143225870664876163): refactoring to only surface net assets for each module and the federation in aggregate reduces the complexity / confusion and still accomplishes the goal of surfacing the total amount of bitcoin held by the federation.
- **bradleystachurski:** Hmm, interesting CI failure. I'll try a rebase

```
fedimint-test-all> lscpu: failed to determine number of CPUs: /sys/devices/system/cpu/possible: No such file or directory
fedimint-test-all> ## START: cli_test_always_success
fedimint-test-all> ## COMPLETE: cli_test_always_success
Error: The operation was canceled.
```

