+++
+++
## SUMMARY
- **PR #3022:** [fix(devimint): properly shutdown lightningd](https://github.com/fedimint/fedimint/pull/3022)

### GPT SUMMARY:
The text discusses the issue of the cln extension continuing to run for a while after it is not explicitly shutdown, which can cause errors during the next execution. There is a conversation between two individuals discussing their previous issues with the cln extension not stopping when they killed it, but they thought they had fixed those problems. However, it is mentioned that the cln extension does not seem to receive a kill signal at the same time and continues running for several seconds before realizing that lightningd is dead and then exits. A command is provided to test this behavior. Additionally, it is noted that even a SIGKILL signal does not cause lightningd to try to kill the extension. There is also a suggestion to protect the drop function with `Arc` to prevent termination issues when a cloned object goes out of context.

## DETAILS
### Description:
The cln extension may continue running for a while if we don't shutdown it explicitly. This may cause errors on the next execution.

Also moved some utility cli commands from load-test-tool to devimint

### Comments:
- **m1sterc001guy:** I thought killing CLN would cause the extension to stop too? We had issues with this in the past but I thought we had fixed those problems
- **douglaz:** > I thought killing CLN would cause the extension to stop too? We had issues with this in the past but I thought we had fixed those problems

It doesn't seems to receive a kill at the same time. It keeps running for many seconds then it seems to realize lightningd is dead, then it exits.

- **douglaz:** A command to test is inside `just mprocs`:
```bash
killall lightningd;for i in {0..1000}; do echo $i;killall -0 gateway-cln-extension || break;sleep 0.1;done
```

On my machine it takes >12s for gateway-cln-extension to disappear

You can also see that if you send a SIGKILL the time is the same:

```bash
killall -9 lightningd;for i in {0..1000}; do echo $i;killall -0 gateway-cln-extension || break;sleep 0.1;done
```
So lightningd doesn't try to kill the extension even on SIGTERM.
- **douglaz:** Drop should be in a inner object protected by `Arc`, otherwise we may keep try to terminate when a cloned object goes out of context.

